Restaurant Recommendations
Suffers from delusions of adequacy
Also known as Ebola Café
Took a doggie bag home, the dog refused it
Stay home and heat up a can of Alpo instead
Filled with flowers and all the things that make flowers grow.
Waiters just back from the Jihad.
Mashed potatoes and attitude don't mix
Be sure to sit in the no-shooting section
If this place doesn't get you laid, nothing will
Saves fuel bills-the heartburn will keep you warm all winter
If I say anything bad about the place, I might get whacked
How do you say "loser" in Chinese?
Body piercing-today's special
Don't bother unless you're nineteen with raging testosterone
Dishes look like road kill
"Hi, I'm obviously underage. Margarita please."
The immature eating the inedible
Like a skunk, it's small, it's cute and it stinks
The look might be French but the staff is Martian
Makes prunes desirable
I can defrost better
The last stop before food stamps
A petri dish experiment gone horribly, horribly wrong
Where's the health department?
Better service in a self help gas station
Only an accountant could like it
I'd rather sit in traffic
Wins for most roach sightings
Totally vegged out
Should be renamed Barfing Dog
At 26, you're a senior citizen
Where the boys can be girls and no one will notice
Still sleazy after all these years
Why eat-when you can take the vegetables from the trash can 
Reassuringly ugly
The only thing authentic about this joint is the heartburn and the check
I get sick from the food every time. At least it has consistency.
If I want a fatty sandwich served by a walking attitude, I'll go to mom's 
Food tastes like socks
To call it a dump would be flattering 
Like oh my Gawd, like can you believe how cool I am?
Waiters make the 3 stooges look elegant
Waitresses trained by Joseph Stalin?
The cockroaches are more energetic than the management
The Bronx Zoo with food
Perfect for your fasting day
The Emperor's new food
Seductio ad absurdum
Where you can eat the cast of "Bambi"
So noisy you can't hear yourself taste
Beam me up Scotty
Even the water gives you heartburn
The portions are the size of Jesse Helm's grants to the arts
Grandma cooked like this, Grandpa died young
Wonder why there aren't any cats in Chinatown? Eat here
Gay Chucky Cheese
Good Seafood, but Waiter should be used as Fishbait
Like the Wicked Queen, beautiful but evil
Slim's at least they got the name right
Gets an "A" for attitude
Beavis and Butthead hangout
Wear black and bring Maalox
So romantic that wives feel like mistresses and vice- versa
If this place doesn't get you laid, nothing will
The old waiters are fresher than the fish
Beats prozac as a mood lifter
Roseanne's kind of restaurant
Don't go on a bad hair day, if you want to fit in
Let the kids spill, no one will ever notice
About as Chinese as tacos
Literary hangout that originated the term "writer's cramp"
A real theater district experience with waitresses who are just auditioning
Gives health and food both bad names
A cardiologists' reference service
Grandma-style bad food

