The Setup:
> The following is an actual question given on a University of Washington
> chemistry midterm.  The answer was so "profound" that the professor shared
> it with colleagues, which is why we now have the pleasure of enjoying it
> as well.
...this assertion has not been verified, but it's an amusing answer
nonetheless.

Bonus Question:
Is Hell exothermic (gives off heat) or endothermic(absorbs heat)?
 [ Most of the students wrote proofs of their beliefs using Boyle's
 Law, (gas cools when it expands and heats when it is compressed) or
 some variant.  One student, however, wrote the following:]


First, we need to know how the mass of Hell is changing with time.
So we need to know the rate at which souls are moving into Hell and
the rate at which they are leaving.  I think that we can safely
assume that once a soul gets to Hell, it will not leave.  Therefore,
no souls are leaving.

 As for how many souls are entering Hell, let's look at the
different religions that exist in the world today.  Some of these
religions state that if you are not a member of their religion, you
will go to Hell.  Since there are more than one of these religions,
and since people do not belong to more than one religion, we can
project that all souls go to Hell. With birth and death rates as they
are, we can expect the number of souls in Hell to increase
exponentially.

Now, we look at the rate of change of the volume in Hell.  Because
Boyle's Law states that in order for the temperature and pressure in
Hell to stay the same, the volume of Hell has to expand as souls are
added.

This gives two possibilities:

 1. If Hell is expanding at a slower rate than the rate at which
    souls enter Hell, then the temperature and pressure in Hell will
	increase until all Hell breaks loose. 

 2. Of course, if Hell is expanding at a rate faster than the
 increase of souls in Hell, then the temperature and pressure will
 drop until Hell freezes over. 

So which is it? If we accept the postulate given to me by Ms.
Teresa Banyan during my Freshman year "...that it will be a cold day
in Hell before I sleep with you," and take into account the fact that
I still have not succeeded in having sexual relations with her, then
#2 cannot be true; and thus I am sure that Hell is exothermic and
will not freeze.

 [THE STUDENT RECEIVED THE ONLY "A" GIVEN. (yeah, right...-ed.)]
