                             SEMINAR

         Jimi Hendrix meets the Giant Screaming Buddha:
       Recreating the Sixties via Back Propagation in Time

                      Garrison W. Cottrell
                  Department of Sixties Science
             Southern California Condominium College


     As the Sixties rapidly recede from the cultural memory,  one
nagging problem has been the lack of a cultural milieu that could
produce another guitar player like Jimi Hendrix.  Recent research
has  shown  that  part  of  the problem has been the lack of high
microgram dosages of  LSD  due  to  the  war  on  drugs.   Recent
advances in neural network technology have provided legal ways to
artificially recreate and combine models of Hendrix  and  LSD  in
recurrent  PDP  networks.  The basic idea is to train a recurrent
back propagation network via Williams & Zipser's (1988) algorithm
to  learn the map between musical scores of Hendrix music and the
hand movements as recorded in various  movies.   The  network  is
then given simulated doses of LSD and allowed to create new music
on its own.

     The first component of the model, following  (Jordan,  1988)
is  to  have  the  network  learn  a  forward  model of the motor
commands that drive robot hands which  play  a  guitar.   Usually
this  is  done via allowing the network to "babble", i.e., having
the network produce random motor outputs, allowing  it  to  learn
the  map  between its motor outputs and the sound produced.  Once
the network has learned the motor-acoustic map, it  may  then  be
exposed  to  environmental  patterns corresponding to the desired
input-output map in acoustic space.  Thus for example,  the  plan
vector  for  the network will be a representation of the score of
the Star Spangled Banner,  presented  a  bar  at  a  time.   Over
several  iterations  on each bar, the teaching signal is Hendrix'
corresponding rendition[1].  Thus the model  learns  through  the
Jimi  Hendrix Experience.  Once the model is trained, we now have
a neural network model, Jimi Matrix, that can sight read.  We can
now  see how Hendrix would have played the hits of today.  One of
the first songs we plan to apply this to is the smash hit, "Don't
Worry, Be Happy".

     It has long been suspected that the ability to produce  maps
of this sort is due to some hidden degrees  of  freedom[2].   One
form  of  an  extra  degree of freedom is Lysergic Diethyl Amide,
better known as LSD.  Current models of the effect  of  LSD  only
produce simple forms of doubly periodic patterns on visual cortex
that correspond to so-called "form constants" perceived by people
while hallucinating (Ermentrout & Cowan, 1979).  However, most of
these studies were  done  on  subjects  who  only  ingested  .125
Haas[3].  Much more complicated, cognitive  level  hallucinations
occur  at  higher  doses.   In order to model the Giant Screaming
Buddha hallucination that occurs about 45 minutes after ingesting
1  Haas, new models are necessary.  The basic idea is that 1 Haas
produces oscillations in association cortex that then  feed  back
on  area  17,  producing the visual sensation of the oft-reported
mythic figure.  Applying this to the Jimi Matrix model, it is  no
wonder  that "six turned out to be nine" (Hendrix, 1967).  By the
judicious introduction of simulated  LSD  into  the  Jimi  Matrix
model,  we  will use this as a "chaotic cognitive generator".  We
estimate that with this technique, we can  produce  an  album  of
all-new Hendrix material every eight hours on a Sun-4.
____________________
   [1]"Excess degrees of freedom" does not begin to describe this
map.   Hence  radical  new techniques will be necessary.  This is
another area where simulated LSD comes in.
   [2]As with hidden units, the big question is where people hide
their extra degrees of freedom.  Our research suggests that  Hen-
drix' were actually hidden in guitar strings pre-soaked in lyser-
gic acid. This accounts his habit  of  playing  guitar  with  his
tongue, and destroying the evidence afterward.
   [3]The Haas is a unit of acid dose. 1 Haas == 6 hits, or about
750 micrograms.
