Just Say No to Drug Hysteria
 by William S. Burroughs

An interesting case of mass hysteria is described in a book called
_The_Medical_Detectives_, by Berton Rouche'.  The outbreak occurred
at the Bay Harbor Elementary School in Dade County, Florida.  A girl
named Sandy, who was slightly ill with the flu, collapsed in the
school cafeteria and was carried out on a stretcher as the next shift
of students was coming in.

Sandy, it seems, was sort of a leader.  In any case, the students
started keeling over in droves.  An officer from the Department of
Public Health was dispatched to the scene.  Fortunately, he recalled
a similar case some years back from another high school, and quickly
made a diagnosis of mass hysteria.

The remedy is very simple -- get back to a calm, normal routine as
expeditiously as possible.  Get the children back to their classes.
And that was the end of the outbreak.  However, if the hysteria is
not recognized and acted upon, it will go on and get worse and worse,
as happened in the previous outbreak.

When hysteria is deliberately and systematically cultivated and
fomented by a governing party, it can be relied upon to get worse and
worse, to spread and deepen.  Recent examples are Hitler's
anti-Semitic hysteria and present day drug hysteria.  The remedy is
simple -- a calm, objective, common-sense approach.


Remember that during the 19th and early 20th centuries -- the "good
old days," which conservatives so fondly evoke -- opiates, cannabis
tinctures, and cocaine were sold across the counter from sea to
shining sea, and the United States did not founder as a result.
There's no way to know exactly how many addicts there were, but my
guess would be -- suprisingly few.  Many people simply _don't_ _like_
_these_ _drugs_.

In England, before America persuaded the English government to adopt
our own tried-and-failed, police-and-sanction approach, any addict
could get heroin on prescription and fill his script on the National
Health.  As a result there was no black market, since there was no
profit involved.  In 1957 there were about 500 addicts in the UK, and
two narcotics officers for metropolitan London.  Now England presents
the same dreary spectrum as the USA -- thousands of addicts, hundreds
of drug agents, some of them on the take, a flourishing black market,
addicts dying from OD's and contaminated heroin.

Obviously the sane, common-sense solution is maintenance for those
who cannot or will not quit, and effective treatment for those who
want to quit.  The only treatment currently available is abrupt
withdrawal, or withdrawal with substitute drugs.  Withdrawal
treatment dates back to the early 19th century British drug essayist
Thomas De Quincey.  Surely they could do better than that.  Indeed,
they _could_, but they show no signs of doing so.


Consider alternative therapy that is available: acupuncture,
amorphine.  Both therapies work because they stimulate the production
of endorphins, the body's natural regulators and pain killers.  The
discovery and isolation of endorphins has been called the most
crucial breakthrough towards the understanding and treatment of
addiction since addiction was first recognized as a syndrome.

If you don't use it, you lose it.  The addict is ingesting an
artificial painkiller, so his body ceases to produce endorphins.  If
opiates are then withdrawn, he is left without the body's natural
painkiller, and what would be normally minor discomfort becomes
excruciatingly painful, until the body readjusts and produces
endorphins.  This is the basic mechanism of addiction, and explains
why an agent that stimulates the production of endorphins will afford
some relief from withdrawal symptoms.

De Quincey suggested that there may be a constituional predisposition
to the use of opium, and modern researchers speculate that addicts
may be genetically deficient in insulin.  I have heard from one
addict who receieved an experimental injection of endorphins during
heroin withdrawal.  He reported that there was none of the usual
euphoria experienced from an opiate injection, but rather a "shift of
gears," and he was suddenly free from withdrawal symptoms.
Researchers believe that endorphins, since it is a natural body
substance, may not be addictive.  Only widespread testing can answer
this question.

Since endorphins were first extracted from animal brains, it is at
present prohibitively expensive: $2000 a treatment, just as cortisone
was very expensive when it was first extracted.  Synthesis has
brought the price of cortisone within the reach of any patient who
needs it.  Is there any of the $7.9 billion in Bush's latest War on
Drugs plan marked for the synthesis and widespread testing of
endorphins?  I doubt if many of the congressmen who draft "tough drug
bills" even know what endorphins are.  And the same goes for the
so-called drug experts who advise President Bush.

Billions for ineffectual enforcement.

Nothing for effective treatment.


I quote from a reading I have delivered to many receptive university
audiences. 
