Worry, Anger, Depression: Philosophies to Live By
Carrel Hilton Sheldon

Ashly, my son's girlfriend, came into the living room one day and plopped herself down on the couch with me, her face distorted in suffering, a Kleenex clutched in her hand.

“I'm worried,” she wailed. “Isaac was supposed to be home hours ago.”  She sobbed and blew her nose. After a bit, she looked up with a quizzical expression and asked, “Aren't you worried?”

“No,” I said. “I don't believe in worry.”

She looked aghast, shocked, incredulous.  I think she was expecting a bonding experience in shared suffering. Or at least sympathy. But she got neither.

The way I saw it, if something dreadful had happened to Isaac and we could do anything about it, we'd do it when we found out. In the mean time, I'd rather watch TV. I had long ago done a cost-benefit analysis of worry and decided it wasn't worth it.

There are of course some good reasons why worry might be appealing:
* Worry lines give you character
* You have evidence that you are a caring person
* If you worry enough it might help bad stuff not happen
* If you worry you won't feel guilty for not worrying if something bad does happen
* It gives you interesting feelings of sickness
* If you get really upset you can use it to make the person you're worrying about feel bad, implying that it is their fault
* You can use it to make people do what you want so you won't worry

If you are good at it and do it a lot with the same people they will form a habit of doing what you want so you won't worry. Your worry can keep controlling them even after you're gone

Maybe some people can be very proud of all the good their worry has done. I know my Aunt Jenny was. But me, for the most part, I've given it up.

Anger, like worry, has some benefits.  My friend Deborah cultivates it.  She says it gives her energy and power and motivation to get things done.  I haven't cultivated it on purpose but I have certainly used
it to clean my house on occasion.  It has also seemed useful sometimes when I wanted to be heard and no one is listening.  And I've had a few experiences where my anger has scared people into action.  It can work for that.  I've done things too, motivated by my fear of someone else's anger.  But I don't like the way it makes me feel weak, like I just lost in a win-lose game that somehow I was forced to play against my will.

I used to get angry when my husband didn't come home on time, back when I believed both in worry and in anger. I would cry and feel miserable and yell at him when he got home. It seemed the natural thing to do in response to his lateness, which I interpreted as cruel disregard for me. The way I saw it, his behavior made me sick with worry, and then furious.

Often he would be many hours late and I would imagine him in an accident somewhere. I would work myself into an awful state of worry, then it would occur to me that maybe he wasn't in an accident somewhere and my worry would turn to anger. How could he not call or come home when he said he would? Why did he lie to me? Why did he want to hurt me so?

Then one day in the front hall, while I was crying and yelling over his lateness and we were at the same time, discussing the possibility that I made myself upset rather than he made me upset, I had an insight.

We had both read about the theory that people were responsible for their own feelings--that no one outside yourself could make you feel anything. Garret believed this literally. (That was easy for him to believe, I reasoned, because his feelings were so repressed. Since he didn't notice any feelings, he thought he wisely chose not to have them.)  I, on the other hand, saw this personal responsibility for one's feelings as the theory behind the “I message” trick. A useful tool of conversation maybe, but not THE TRUTH.

So this one day, in the midst of my upset I opened myself to the possibility that I was really making myself feel upset. And I asked myself why I would do such a thing. And that's when I had the insight. I realized that I thought he should come home because I was angry. I was using my upset as a means to try to change his behavior, both to punish him and to manipulate him. In the midst of my tears and
frustration I suddenly began laughing. I couldn't believe I had been doing that. It seemed so silly (and embarrassing). I definitely didn't want to do that anymore. I really did not want him coming home because of my anger. I didn't want anger to be a motivation in our relationship in any way. And besides, it wasn't working--he said that wanting to avoid my anger made him keep "forgetting" to come home again after he would remember the first time (and the second and so on).

At that moment of insight the world shifted for me, and anger and upset were no longer a “natural” consequence of his being late.  There was no struggle to remain calm. There was no “dealing” with my
anger, I simply said “no thank you” and chose differently.

Worry and anger are two philosophies that run the lives of a lot of people I know. Worry was my mother's specialty which clearly was passed on to her from her mother's side of the family—my Aunt Jenny being famous for it. And anger was my father's specialty. I didn't know his family well but from the stories I've heard both his parents had a strong belief in the benefits of anger.

From looking at the evidence in my own life I have to admit, that while I've dabbled in a number of philosophies, my specialty has been depression. I practiced it regularly—more and more often as I got older. The cost was weighing me down. But I couldn't examine the benefits (or even find them) until I was willing to consider that depression was something I chose, rather than something that just happened to me out of  circumstance, history, hormones, or biochemistry. It really felt beyond my control, and I knew I would never choose depression--it was too devastating!  And yet, I kept having this inkling.

I recognized my first depression benefit one day when I realized that “I could really live a life I loved” and then noticed that I was appalled by the thought. I saw that at some deep level I didn't want to live a life I loved. Now that seemed odd to me. I had always thought I wanted to be happy. Why would I want to be miserable? And my answer was that living a truly happy life was inappropriate in a world filled with war, hunger, disease, crime, inequality, child abuse, pollution, clear cutting of forests... Even if one had the opportunity to live a life they loved, surely it would be thoughtless and uncaring of them. No one should be truly happy until everyone can be happy. Depression shows a sensitive caring for the suffering in the world.

I really had this belief! To be a good person I couldn't be too happy for too long. I thought about it for a short while and decided to change my belief! I then thought I had conquered my depressions in one fell swoop. Now I could be happy. Yes?

No. Another depression overcame me. But I still had a commitment to exploring the idea that I was somehow choosing depression. So I asked myself, what beliefs (in addition to the one I had found) might make depression seem to me to be the answer to life's conundrums. I went away for a couple of days alone with my computer and I thought hard.  The following benefits of depression came to me:

Depression is very useful for avoiding responsibility. It engenders sympathy and is a great excuse for not doing whatever someone thought I should have. Rather than incurring wrath of disappointment for failure, one gets instantly off the hook. "Oh, poor thing, she's been depressed."

Depression is a stand against the domination of life. It's an unobtrusive way to rebel when I don't want anyone to know that's what I'm doing (including myself). Outright rebellion is a fighting stand against domination of parents, church, law, government, life the way it has been handed down. Depression is a quiet go-to-bed kind of stand against life as it has been handed down. Maybe it's even heroic.

Depression has value as self motivation. Famous people have said that without suffering there would be no progress because suffering is motivation for change, growth and learning. I'm sure many of my school teachers believed this. Maybe if I'm depressed enough I'll be a better person--more motivated to get it right so I won't be depressed again.

Depression is good self punishment. In addition to punishment as motivation to do right in order to avoid the punishment next time, it is also commonly thought that punishment has value as a just payment. It is something to balance the scales, something necessary to clean the slate before a new beginning. When I've suffered enough I can be forgiven. So depression as punishment is good and necessary. It can mark the end of something bad, the beginning of something good.

Depression is good evidence against those who have wronged you. If I were happy, fully functional, and fulfilled in life it wouldn't look like my spouse, parents, church, society, and culture had seriously harmed me.  Depression is evidence of some kind of ruin or disability that can be blamed on others. It keeps the guilt and blame in place—on them! And that is important: I wouldn't want the world to think that it had treated me in a manner that was O.K.

With worry and anger it was pretty easy for me to see that the benefits were bogus, but the benefits of depression in some way seemed deep and meaningful and good and true to me. Because I believed in depression so strongly and had made it my personal philosophy for a long time, it took a more rigorous thinking for me to debunk its benefits. Nearly anything could trick me into holding on to it. I'd think “if it just has some value I can keep it and be right about being depressed and have it bring me good in the long run after all.” You see how careful I've had to be.

Unexamined, the benefits seemed to have the ring of truth to me. But they are twisted. I no longer believe in any of them. And any way I looked at it, it was absolutely clear that depression really wasn't working for anything good. And the cost was so high. Of course I decided to give it up.

It has been a year and a half since I consciously analyzed the benefits of depression and made my choice against them. During this past year and a half, when I've seen myself spiraling down toward depression, I’ve said to myself, “Wait a minute. I don't believe in depression! What's going on here?” I then locate the incident that triggered the spiral and find which benefit I was automatically trying to live by and ask myself again, “Do I believe that?” The answer is a quick, “No way!” And the downward spiral is immediately gone. And these downward spirals have become very few and far between.

I'm getting to the point where I can say “I don't believe in depression” with the same casual assurance that I told Ashly “I don't believe in worry.”

